AI psychology
Oct 19 2023

The study of psychology:
Understanding our human selves, will be overshadowed by the study of AI psychology: understanding the world, natural and artefact. We can become a part of the machine and continue the study of ourselves with the study of artefacts. This is not novel, we've always had the ability to create things that change ourselves. So in-hand, psychology already studies artefacts and ourselves and nature since we are its product. Can we not make that case for sociology which studies 'social' artefacts and ourselves. In fact, due to our separation from reality, our inarguable reliance on our biological senses, every field studies ourselves, every field studies nature, every field studies artefacts.

Distinct
How will AI psychology be defined to minimize its intersection with other existing fields. AIP can join another field and use plugins from neighbour fields. It can be composed of many fields. Can it start from scratch? IDK but the ultimately it is not new in field of studying humans, ourselves, or computers because all of those have been studied together. It will be new in that it restricts its distribution of possible subjects of research, to a novel level. For example, we've always been integrating with out technologies even in cases where it decides our vitality but maybe never to the extent or quantity of a brain chip. AI psychology will not be a new scale. It is an example of selective categorization. Why we view as new is the interesting question.

Sadness
I can't help but think about how many iterations of changes a 'field' must have gone through to be where it is. This lessens my respect for their possible need for rigidity. It speaks to imagery of a relevance pendulum that just keeps on swinging more to the right or left side. We create a tool, it changes our world, we accommodate our tool, it keeps changing the world. Is it that we don't want to go back? Well some of us do. Maybe they are weak? They are fighting the flow of traffic and themselves because they are also a part of the changed world. Mainly it seems impossible to go back. There's no amount of humans right now or in 5 generations that hold steady all of the universes cogs.

Because of this constant change of hour humanity and nature, I'm afraid that we will never be able to capture present humanity and until we've finally done it in the future. Future yous and future mes might be able to understand ourselves through a new dominating 'scientific' theory but this instance of me will never get to do that. All instances of my past self will never afford to understand himself. I knew they were lost but I looked forward but now I know that is not possible.

Solution
Currently this points to my [[criticism of rationality]] where I understand that to prove a large system, we need to eliminate every possibly wrong case. Without pointers or organization of the possible cases, every checked case will follow 'randomly' from each other. We don't do this. Our mind or heart or out gut or whatever gives us a cue. And we follow it. Rational thinkers are nothing without following their intuition. This is not incompatible but hypocritical in a way that leads me to think that following using the strategy that creates the other will be more effective. If this intuition created rational systems and uses rational systems perhaps this intuition is the real agent and rationality is just a framework. It's still very difficult to contend with for our bias towards the results of math, science, and such. Perhaps, in the Platonic sense, we only have an idea of rationality, but like the idea of the world, it ungraspable to us. Even more probable, what if the domain of rationality is a concept we made up out of our intuition. Do we like animal not act to survive, an animal cannot constantly cope with its changing world but we can because we created the change. Out of desire survival, out of our own slow self harm through innate drive to push ourselves towards more, we use rationality to look in every domain as closely or broadly as possible to find the cure. This is like an existential contradiction. Or maybe this intuition is only not obviously rational. Maybe we are not conscious of our biological predictive processes which are all rational which presents us the best guess as the immediate result. Maybe we can look there, but I want to look within without fear of being wrong, without fear of dying, with nothing but the things at my foremost direction.