Internet
Nov 11 2023

Life:
Life experiences is the most beautiful thing humans can grasp because it encompasses everything humans can grasp: it's in the definition of life experiences. I'm not saying your life or experience is to you beautiful, I'm not saying life can't be bad. I'm saying life in its totality is necessarily beautiful. This is not some existential emo talk, I don't mean to contrast it with death since the death we fear and compare to life, we only quantify through our meanings and metaphors. Death is not real until we feel nothing. Life is real, and we always feel it. I don't even mean to use logic, I want to hypnotize you into this foundational ___ . In this sense you can apply whatever description you can think of to life and for me, the word that sees all human feeling is beauty.

I keep on saying this and I keep on saying this because it makes me happy and grateful and optimistic and more willing to enjoy life's experiences.

Why the internet is awesome:
1. It's different
I hate that I feel so much all the time, it's so beautiful, yet sometimes I want to just focus on one thing. Since the brain likes to collect useful patterns (typicality effect), great dissectional insight can be gained from diversifying intake of differently composed stimuli which all contain your goal essence. Take games: I play chess with my grandpa, I play soccer when I was in elementary school, I play call of duty after christmas. I've enjoyed all of these experiences. I'm happy when I hear games not because I'm expecting call of duty, soccer, or chess, but because I know what a game is and I like games. Take people: I talk to people when I need things, I talk to people because I like them, I talk to people outside, inside of building, I talk to people from different countries, and I talk to people online. I know what I'm getting myself into when I'm talking to people.
The internet's ecosystem is different than real life because currently there does not need to be anything but a screen and inputs. Doing anything on the internet comes with its unique internet bias opposed to real life bias. Within this screen subset, runs branches that might parallel face to face chatter and meet many of its superficial functions like work and catch-up but from its essence of chatter, it may branch out into novel ways of communication such as emojis, memes, and complex social communities.

Empathy and grit:
With every new dataset, intersections get us a simpler essences. These essences, born from new experiences, are vital to our future predictions. Think about empathy, using your past experiences to help others. Think about grit, using your past experiences to reassure yourself. To be exact I think grit is just the exploitation of past experiences for an over prediction of past experiences, because when we know a current experience is like a past experiences and won't contribute to our essence building, it weighs less because it should have little effect on our future.

I strive to have a simplest essence for things I love so that I can apply it to as many situations as possible. The internet showed me how to love more people.

2. It's huge
Not mentioned in the last point but being removed from others bodies talking to them is wholly different. I'm talking sexual desires and all these patterns that we keep that are jagged. Having to consistently associate this jaggedness with communication, which is essentially different, is not correct in ways that lead to depressing sentiments about nothing being pure ... which, 'nothing' is pure...

Our bodies are beautiful, but that is not what I wanted when I talked to you.

Because of all these patterns which result in biases, it is unnecessarily difficult to talk about certain things with your average person because their biases might lead to them being disgusted by your unexpected presentation. This is not their fault, they don't choose to be biologically disgusted just like how you didn't choose to be special, disabled, or unexpected. Instead, hating itself, hating others, or waiting to die like a runt, the stubborn mule pinches hope in the fact that there are 9 billion other bodies than the one that rejected them. The mule interfaces others on the mule's computers and fins r/mules. Now, the mule only carries the burdens of it's own mental organization not its body. This is still tough but it's cheaper when you look at how complex the world is with its databanks, and bureaucratic hiring systems for bureaucratic positions. Internet people need to only present themselves a little differently to move thousands of lines of code.

On the internet, you only need to say one word for one word to be heard.

On then [[Death of Omegle]].